>> Woodruff: UKRAINE'S
PARLIAMENT FILLS A POWER VACUUM,
WITH THE FORMER PRESIDENT ON THE
RUN, FACING CHARGES OF MASS
MURDER.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY, ONE OF
THE WORLD'S MOST WANTED MEN WAS
CAPTURED IN MEXICO WITHOUT A
SINGLE SHOT FIRED.
BUT WHAT DOES HIS ARREST MEAN
FOR THE CROSS-BORDER DRUG TRADE?
>> Woodruff: PLUS:
I SEE BARREN HALLWAYS
BROKEN CAMERAS
UNINVITED GUESTS
THERE'S NO SERVICE HERE
AS IF A SEA OF PEOPLE WERE CAST
AWAY ON AN ISLAND TO FEND FOR
THEMSELVES
THE WEATHER OUTSIDE IS
FRIGHTENING
>> Woodruff: WHILE INVESTIGATIVE
JOURNALISTS LOOK INTO ONE
CALIFORNIA TOWN'S DECREPIT
HOUSING.
THE POETS WITH THEM ARE TELLING
THEIR OWN VERSION OF THAT STORY,
IN VERSE.
>> I'M BRIING NGTHE PEOPLE'S
PERSPECTIVE.
SEE, WHEN YOU HEAR OUR POEM, IT
IS LIKE YOU ARE LISTENING TO THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE ACTUALLY LIVING
IN IT.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES
WE'RE COVERING ON TONIGHT'S
PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE INTERIM LEADERS IN
UKRAINE ISSUED A  WAANT RRTODAY
FOR OUSTED PRESIDENT VIKTOR
YANUKOVYCH, FOR THE KILLINGS OF
PROTESTERS.
YANUKOVYCH FLED KIEV OVER THE
WEEKEND FOR THE EASTERN, PRO-
RUSSIAN HALF OF THE COUNTRY.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM JAMES
MATES OF INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS.
>> Reporter: THE CITY OF
SEVASTOPOL IS IN UKRAINE BUT AS
ITS NOW DAILY DEMONSTRATIONS
SHOW, THE FLAG ITS PEOPLE SHOW
ALLEGIANCE TO IS THE RUSSIAN
ONE.
IT'S HERE THE FUGITIVE FORMER
PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH IS NOW
BELIEVED TO HAVE SOUGHT
SANCTUARY AT A RUSSIAN NAVAL
BASE.
IF TRUE, RUSSIA'S PRESIDENT
PUTIN IS UNLIKELY EVER TO HAND
HIM OVER.
STILL, CELEBRATING THE END OF
HIS SOCHI OLYMPIC PARTY, HIS
PRIME MINISTER TODAY MADE
RUSSIA'S ANGER AT WHAT'S
HAPPENED ABUNDANTLY CLEAR.
"SOME OF OUR WESTERN PARTNERS,"
HE SAID, "THINK THERE'S A
LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT THERE.
IT'S STRANGE TO CALL A
GOVERNMENT LEGITIMATE WHEN IT'S
THE RESULT OF AN ARMED
UPRISING."
THE CLOSEST THE UKRAINIANS MAY
NOW GET TO YANUKOVYCH IS THE
TREASURE TROVE OF DOCUMENTS HE
LEFT BEHIND.
MANY DUMPED IN A RIVER NOW BEING
METICULOUSLY DRIED AND SORTED.
DAMNING EVIDENCE FOR A TRIAL
THAT WILL PROBABLY NEVER HAPPEN.
>> WE HAVE PART OF THE FINANCIAL
DOCUMENTS REVEALING THE WHOLE
SYSTEM OF THE MONEY LAUNDERING
THAT WAS ESTABLISHED HERE TO
SUPPLY YANUKOVYCH'S REGIME WITH
THE MONEY AND TO PROVIDE THE
MONEY FOR CONSTRUCTION OF THESE
WHOLE LUXURY PALACES.
>> Reporter: MORE WORRYING AS
THE CONTINUED LACK OF ANY
VISIBLE AUTHORITY IN THE CAPITAL
KIEV.
ANY GROUP WITH A GRIEVANCE NOW
TAKING TO THE STREETS DEMANDING
THEY GET WHAT THEY WANT.
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU GO
SEVERAL DAYS WITHOUT THE PROPER
POLICE FORCES.
HERE YOU HAVE A GROUP OF
FOOTBALL SUPPORTERS TRYING TO
FORCE THEIR WAY INTO PARLIAMENT
DEMANDING THE RELEASE OF ONE OF
THEIR OWN FROM JAIL.
OVER HERE THE SO-CALLED SELF-
DEFENSE FORCES, A RAGTAG ARMY
WITH CLUBS AND IMPROVISED
HELMETS WAITING TO SECURE
PARLIAMENT, NOT REALLY KNOWING
WHO GIVES THEM ORDERS.
TWO POLITICIANS PROMISED AN
IMMEDIATE VOTE IN PARLIAMENT AND
WITHIN HALF AN HOUR TWO MEN
CONVICTED OF MURDER UNDER THE
OLD REGIME WERE ORDERED TO BE
FREED.
THE EUPHORIA OF REVOLUTION CAN
WANE VERY QUICKLY.
WHAT COMES NEXT IS NOT ALWAYS AN
IMPROVEMENT.
>> Ifill: RUSSIA'S FOREIGN
MINISTER SHARPLY CRITICIZED THE
TURN OF EVENTS IN UKRAINE.
35 BILLION DOLLARS OVER THE NEXT
TWO YEARS.
THE DEMONSTRATORS ERECTED
BARRICADES OF TRASH AND OTHER
DEBRIS ACROSS MAJOR
THOROUGHFARES, BRINGING TRAFFIC
TO A HALT.
BUT THERE WERE NO REPORTS OF
VIOLENCE.
THERE HAVE BEEN NATIONWIDE
PROTESTS SINCE FEBRUARY 12. AND
AT LEAST 11 DEATHS.
>> Ifill: THE INTERIM PRIME
MINISTER OF EGYPT HAS ANNOUNCED
THE RESIGNATION OF HIS CABINET.
IT COULD PAVE THE WAY FOR
MILITARY CHIEF ABDEL FATTAH AL-
SISI TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT.
THE ANNOUNCEMENTAME  CAMID
STRIKES BY PUBLIC TRANSPORT
WORKERS AND GARBAGE COLLECTORS.
EGYPT HAS SEEN POLITICAL TURMOIL
SINCE ISLAMIST PRESIDENT MOHAMED
MORSI WAS OUSTED BY THE MILITARY
LAST JULY.
A NEW ANTI-GAY LAW IN UGANDA
TOOK EFFECT TODAY, IMPOSING
SENTENCES OF UP TO LIFE IN
PRISON FOR ENGAGING IN
HOMOSEXUAL RELATIONS.
PRESIDENT YOWERI MUSEVENI SIGNED
THE MEASURE INTO LAW IN KAMPALA.
HE SAID IT'S NEEDED BECAUSE THE
WEST IS PROMOTING HOMOSEXUALITY
IN AFRICA.
>> HAS SHOWN THAT YOU CAN BE
HOMOSEXUAL PURELY BY NATURE.
SOCIETY CAN DO SOMETHING ABOUT
IT, TO DISCOURAGE THE TREND.
THAT IS WHY I HAVE AGREED TO
SIGN THE BILL.
>> Ifill: HOMOSEXUALITY IS
ALREADY ILLEGAL IN UGANDA.
GAY ACTIVISTS HAVE VOWED TO
CHALLENGE THIS NEW LAW IN COURT.
AND, PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS WARNED
THE STATUTE WILL HARM RELATIONS
WITH THE U.S.
>> Ifill: THE PENTAGON SERVED
NOTICE TODAY THAT IT WANTS TO
DOWNSIZE THE U.S. ARMY, TO
THE SMALLEST IT'S BEEN IN 74
YEARS.
DEFENSE SECRETARY CHUCK HAGEL
PROPOSED REDUCING ACTIVE DUTY
LEVELS BY ROUGHLY 80,000 AND
CUTTING SEVERAL MAJOR WEAPONS
SYSTEMS.
WE'LL EXPLORE THE PROPOSAL IN
DETAIL, LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
THE LONGEST SERVING MEMBER OF
CONGRESS, EVER, IS CALLING IT A
CAREER.
MICHIGAN DEMOCRAT JOHN DINGELL
HAS ANNOUNCED HE WON'T RUN FOR
RE-ELECTION.
DURING 57 YEARS IN THE HOUSE, HE
BECAME A POWERFUL DEAL-MAKER AND
COMMITTEE CHAIR, AND HELPED PASS
EVERYTHING FROM THE ENDANGERED
SPECIES ACT TO MEDICARE TO THE
AFFORDABLE CARE ACT.
BUT AT 87, HE SAID TODAY HE'S
READY TO STEP DOWN.
>> I KNOW WHEN THE TIME COMES
WHETHER I CAN LIVE UP TO MY OWN
PERSONAL STANDARDS AS A MEMBER
OF CONGRESS.
THIS IS  THE LAST THAT I CAN
PROBABLY GIVE TO MY PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: DINGELL WAS FIRST
ELECTED IN 1955, TO THE SEAT HIS
FATHER HAD HELD SINCE 1933.
THE ELDER DINGELL DIED IN
OFFICE.
POPE FRANCIS HAS ANNOUNCED THE
FIRST MAJOR OVERHAUL OF THE
VATICAN BUREAUCRACY IN  25
YEARS.
HE UNVEILED PLANS TODAY FOR A
NEW  SECRETARIAT TO CONTROL
ECONOMIC, ADMINISTRATIVE,
PERSONNEL AND PROCUREMENT
POLICIES.
FRANCIS WAS ELECTED POPE,
PLEDGING SWEEPING REFORMS.
ON WALL STREET TODAY, THE DOW
JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE GAINED
NEARLY 104 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,207.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 29 POINTS TO
CLOSE JUST SHORT OF 4,293.
ONE OF THE COMEDY STARS OF THE
'70'S AND '80'S, HAROLD RAMIS,
DIED TODAY AT HIS CHICAGO-AREA
HOME.
HE HELPED WRITE AND STARRED IN
"GHOSTBUSTERS," CO-WROTE AND
DIRECTED "CADDYSHACK" AND ALSO
CO-WROTE "ANIMAL HOUSE".
RAMIS HAD BATTLED AN AUTO-IMMUNE
DISEASE FOR FOUR YEARS.
HE WAS 69 YEARS OLD.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE POWER VACUUM IN UKRAINE;
CAPTURING ONE OF THE WORLD'S
MOST NOTORIOUS DRUG KINGPINS;
THE PENTAGON'S PLAN TO SHRINK
THE MILITARY; A LOOK AT EGYPT'S
REVOLUTION, CAPTURED IN AN
OSCAR-NOMINATED  DOCUMENTARY;
PLUS, THE POETRY OF
INVESTIGATIVE RERTINPOG.
>> Woodruff: THE SCENE IN THE
HEART OF UKRAINE'S CAPITAL HAS
SHIFTED FROM CHAOS AND CARNAGE
TO MOURNING.
WITH QUESTIONS OF WHAT'S NEXT
FOR THE COUNTRY.
WE BEGIN WITH THIS REPORT FROM
MATT FREI OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS.
> Reporter: KIEV IS BACK IN
BUSINESS, THE BUSINESS OF
FLOWERS AND GRIEF.
THE CITY CENTER AROUND MAIDAN IS
A SHRINE AMONGST BARRICADES THAT
BECAME SCENES OF TRENCHED
WARFARE FROM A DIFFERENT ERA.
AND IT IS THE CUSTOM OF THIS
THE VESTIGES OF NORMALITY HAVE
RETURNED.
HERE A SUPERMARKET AT THE
BARRICADES HAS OPENED ITS DOORS
AGAIN.
THE METRO IS OPERATING AGAIN, IF
MALY IINN THE SERVICE OF
PILGRIMAGE TO THE PLACE WHERE
DOZENS OF MOSTLY UNARMED
PROTESTERS WERE PICKED OFF BY
SNIPER RIFLES AND KALASHNIKOVS
ONLY FOUR DAYS AGO.
IT'S ASTONISHING HOW QUICKLY A
CRIME SCENE HAS BEEN TRANSFORMED
INTO A SHRINE, GUARDED BY THE
CUSTODIANS OF THE REVOLUTION.
HAUNTED BY THE IMAGES AND SOUNDS
THAT HAVE BARELY HAD TIME TO
BECOME MEMORIES.
IT'S THE DOWN PAYMENT IN BLOOD
THAT HAS MADE THIS REVOLUTION SO
DIFFERENT TO THE ORANGE ONE IN
2004.
IT DEMANDS A MORE SOLEMN LEVEL
OF RESPECT AND REVENGE.
THIS IS ANTONY, A NEUROSURGEON
AND HIS FIVE-YEAR-OLD DAUGHTER
AND HIS PREGNANT MUSICIAN WIFE.
SHE'S EXPECTING IN A FORTNIGHT.
>> Reporter: WHAT SHOULD HAPPEN
TO PRESIDENT YANUKOVYCH?
>> I THINK THAT FOR UKRAINIANS
IT'S NOT ENOUGH TO FIND HIM AND
TO JUDGE HIM.
I THINK THAT AND I BELIEVE AND I
SEE THAT MOST OF US WANT HIM
DEAD.
>> Reporter: WANT HIM DEAD?
>> YEAH BECAUSE A MAN WHO DO
THIS, THOSE HORRIBLE THINGS, HE
DOES NOT LEAVE.
HE MUST DIE FOR HIM.
IT IS BETTER FOR HIM.
>> IT'S A DISASTER REALLY.
I'VE BEEN HERE FROM THE FIRST
DAY OF MY MAIDAN.
>> Reporter: ALESSIA OWNS A
TRAVEL COMPANY AND SUMMED UP
WHAT'S REALLY AT STAKE HERE.
WHAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
THAT NEEDS TO CHANGE?
>> THE MOST IMPORTANT THING?
IT HAS ALREADY CHANGED.
IT'S IN THE MIND OF PEOPLE.
IT'S HERE.
IT'S INSIDE.
WE HAVE TO MAKE THE CHANGE, WE
HAVE TO START FROM OURSELVES.
WE DON'T HAVE TO LOOK FOR
POLITICIANS OR FOR SOMEONE ELSE
TO SAVE OUR COUNTRY.
WE HAVE TO START FROM OURSELVES.
>> Reporter: BUT SOMEONE DOES
NEED TO RUN THE COUNTRY, AND THE
LEADERS FROM THE LAST REVOLUTION
ARE NO LONGER AS APPEALING AS
THEY ONCE WERE.
SO THE MAN WITHOUT A FACE
STANDING GUARD OUTSIDE THE
CENTRAL BANK SUMMED UP A VERY
COMMON REFRAIN.
"UKRAINE NEEDS COMPLETELY NEW
FACES," HE TOLD ME.
"NO TYMOSHENKO.
NO POROSHENKO.
NO ASININE.
NO KLITSCHKO.
NONE OF THEM."
A BLANK SLATE, A POWER VACUUM,
AND ACCORDING TO THE CENTRAL
BANK, A WHOLE OF 35 BILLION
EUROS JUST TO COVER THE NEXT TWO
YEARS.
THE REVOLUTION MAY BE OVER BUT
THERE'S NO SHORTAGE OF DEMONS.
>> Woodruff: WE EXPLORE WHAT'S
NEXT FOR THE COUNTRY WITH:
STEVEN PIFER, FORMER U.S.
AMBASSADOR TO UKRAINE FROM 1998
TO 2000.
HE'S NOW WITH THE BROOKINGS
INSTITUTION.
AND ADRIAN KARATNYCKY, A SENIOR
FELLOW AT THE ATLANTIC COUNCIL.
WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM, BACK TO
THE PROGRAM.
ADRIAN KARATNYCKY, LET ME BEGIN
WITH YOU.
HOW STABLE IS THE SITUATION
RIGHT NOW IN UKRAINE?
WHAT DO YOU HEAR.
>> I THINK THAT IF A GOVERNMENT
TAKES SHAPE AND ASSUME THAT
THERE IS SOME WISDOM IN THE
SHAPING OF THE GOVERNMENT THAT
IT IS REGIONALLY INCLUSIVE.
THAT IT IS NOT JUST PACKED WITH
THE OLD BUT THERE IS SOME ROOM
FOR COMPETENT PEOPLE.
IF THEY HEAR THE VOICES OF THE
SQUARE IN THE SELECTION OF THE
PERSONNEL TOMORROW, THAT CAN
HELP CONSIDERABLY TO MOVE THE
COUNTRY TOWARDS STABILITY.
BUT AT THE MOMENT, THE PEOPLE
WHO WENT OUT INTO THE SQUARE
HAVE QUESTIONS ABOUT THEIR
LEADERS.
THEY REALIZE THERE'S A LOT OF
HORSE TRADING GOING ON AND
PEOPLE ARE FIGHTING FOR POSES.
THEY'RE NOTING LIEUING FOR THE
GREATER GOOD.
THE PUBLIC IS EXPECTING THESE
LEADERS TO DO SOMETHING
DIFFERENT FOR THE FIRST TIME IN
THE 23 YEARS OF UKRAINE'S
HISTORY.
>> Woodruff:  IT SOUNDS
UNSETTLED.
WHAT ARE YOU HEARING.
>> THE SAME THING.
THERE ARE A LOT OF CHALLENGES
THAT THE NEW GOVERNMENT'S GOING
TO FACE.
FIRST OF ALL, CAN IT BE
INCLUSIVE IN A WAY THAT MAKES
PARTICULARLY THOSE PEOPLE
EASTERN UKRAINE WHICH IS
YANUKOVYCH'S POWER BASE FEEL
THEY HAVE SOME STAKE IN THE
GOVERNMENT THAT THE GOVERNMENT'S
LISTENING TO THEM.
YOU HAVE A NUMBER OF OPPOSITION
LEADERS THAT VOLUNTARY GROUPED
TOGETHER FAIRLY WELL.
TYMOCHENKO IS REPOLICED FROM
PRISON.
ASK THEY CONTINUE TO WORK
TOGETHER.
WHEN YOU HAVE THE PRESSURE OF A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION AND SOME
OF THOSE PEOPLE MAY FIND
THEMSELVES WORKING AGAINST ONE
ANOTHER IN THAT ELECTION.
CAN THEY BEGIN TO DO THINGS AND
WORK TOGETHER IN FAIRLY
DIFFICULT CIRCUMSTANCES.
>> Woodruff:  WE SAW THOSE
RUSSIAN FLAGS IN THE EASTERN AND
SOUTHERN CRIMEAN, THE SOUTHERN
PART OF THE COUNTRY.
I THINK A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
QUESTIONING CAN THE COUNTRY HOLD
TOGETHER.
HOW STRONG IS THE PRO RUSSIAN
SENTIMENT.
>> I THINK YOU HAVE TO
UNDERSTAND, THIS IS A VERY
UNIQUE PLACE.
IT'S A PLACE WHERE MANY OF THE
PEOPLE RETIRED FROM THE SOVIET
MILITARY MANY OF THEM ETHNIC
RUSSIANS, CRIMEA IS THE ONLY
PLACE, THERE ARE RUSSIAN
SPEAKING MAJORITIES IN EASTERN
UKRAINE BUT THEY HAVE DIFFERENT
CONSCIOUS MUST.
THE BLACK SEA IS THERE.
IT'S BASICALLY A RUSSIAN TOWN.
SO I DON'T THINK THIS IS A
PARTICULARLY DISTURBING THING TO
SEE.
>> Woodruff:  YOU WOULD
EXPECT.
>> I THINK THERE IS A FEAR OF
THE VALUES AND THE POLITICS OF
THE CENTRAL AND WEST UKRAINES
PARTLY BECAUSE THE LAST FEW
YEARS MRYANU. KOVYCH USED THIS
AS A WEDGE ISSUE.
CULTURAL POLITICS IS NOT JUST
SOMETHING BETWEEN RED STATES AND
BLUE STATES, IT'S ALSO ON A
MASSIVE SCALE IN UKRAINE AND A
DANGEROUS SCALE AS OPPOSED TO
THE SYSTEM.
>> Woodruff:  IS THERE ANY
QUESTION YANUKOVYCH IS OUT OF
THE PICTURE NOW.
>> ALL THE PORTS HAVE HIM HIDING
SOMEWHERE IN CRIMEA.
HE'S BEEN MOVING AROUND SINCE HE
DISAPPEARED ON FRIDAY IN EASTERN
UKRAINE.
ONE OF THE REPORTS SAYING HE
ACTUALLY TRIED TO LEAVE TO
DEPART TO RUSSIA AND BORDER
GUARDS WOULD NOT LET HIM LEAVE.
THE FACT HE'S BEEN HIDING AND
REALLY RUNNING FOR THE LAST FEW
DAYS HE'S PRETTY MUCH BECOME
IRRELEVANT TO WHAT'S GOING ON IN
RE.
HE'S DISCREDITED HIMSELF.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT ARE THE
RUSSIANS.
WE HEARD THE CRITICAL COMMENTS
FROM THE RUSSIAN PRIME MINISTER
SAYING THIS ISN'T A LEGITIMATE
GOVERNMENT.
WHAT SHOULD ONE EXPECT FROM THE
RUSSIANS?
>> WELL, I THINK THAT THE U.S.
AND THE INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
AND ESPECIALLY EUROPE SHOULD
WORK VERY CLOSELY TO GET A
CONSENSUS NOT JUST AMONG THE
WEST BUT OF THE ENTIRE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY TO
RECOGNIZE THE TRANSITION HAS
OCCURRED IN THE UKRAINE AND THIS
IS A LEGITIMATE GOVERNMENT.
THAT WOULD BOX THE RUSSIANS IN.
I THINK I'M VERY WORRIED THAT IF
THERE ARE PEOPLE SORT OF SITTING
ON THE FENCE.
THAT THIS MAY ENCOURAGE THE
RUSSIANS TO BE A LITTLE MORE
AGGRESSIVE IN TRYING TO QUESTION
THE LEGITIMACY.
IT WOULD OPEN QUESTIONS AND
RAISE THE POLITICAL TEMPERATURE
AND THE GEO POLITICAL
TEMPERATURE IN EUROPE.
>> AND YOU CAN MAKE THE CASE,
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO MAKE THE
CASE THAT UKRAINE THAT HAS A
GROWING RELATIONSHIP WITH EUROPE
STILL HAS GOOD RELATIONS WITH
RUSSIA.
AND UKRAINE HAS COMPELLING
REASON TO HAVE GOOD RELATIONS
WITH RUSSIA SHOULD NOT BE A
THREAT.
THAT'S ONE REASON WHY PRICK
SPENT A LOT OF TIME SPEAKING
WITH PRESIDENT PUTIN.
THEY ARE TRYING TO GET RUSSIA TO
BE PART OF THE SOLUTION TO THE
PROBLEM BUT I'M NOT SURE WE'RE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO CHANGE
MR. PUTIN WORLD'S VIEW.
HE STILL SEES WHAT'S HAPPENING
OVER THE LAST FIVE DAYS AS A SET
BACK FOR HIS INTERPRETATION OF
RUSSIAN INTERESTS.
>> Woodruff:  WE DON'T KNOW
YET WHAT THAT MEANS OR WHAT IT
COULD MEAN.
>> WE DO KNOW HE'S CUTTING OFF
ASSISTANCE AT THE MOMENT AND
IT'S NOT FLOWING.
BUT RUSSIA COULD BE ASKED TO BE
PART OF A DEAL WITH AN
INTERNATIONAL CONSORTIUM TO HELP
SAVE THE UKRAINIAN ECONOMY.
IF THEY WERE WILLING TO CONTINUE
WITH THEIR ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
THAT THEY PROMISED WHICH WAS
QUITE GENERAL  -- GENEROUS.
>> Woodruff:  ARE LEADERS
EMERGING INTERNALLY IN UKRAINE?
YOU HEARD THE ORDINARY FOLKS
SAYING TYMOSHENKO, THEY DON'T
LIKE ANY OF THE FOLKS WHO HAVE
BEEN IN POWER.
>> I THINK THERE ARE LEADERS
THAT HAVE EMERGED.
BUT THE QUESTION IS HOW MUCH
CREDIBILITY ARE THEY GOING TO
HAVE WITH THEM ON THE STREET.
WHERE THERE'S A CERTAIN I THINK
SKEPTICISM OF ALL POLITICIANS,
AND SO THERE'S A LOOK TO SAY YOU
NEED TO PROVE TO US THAT YOU'RE
DIFFERENT.
THAT YOU'RE NOT GOING TO REPEAT
THE OLD HABITS OF CLOSED
NON-TRANSPARENT POLITICS BUT
CONDUCTED JUST AMONG THEM,
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO ENGAGE IN
THE SORT OF CORRUPT BEHAVIOR
EPITOMIZED BY THE RELATIONS
COMING OUT OF THE YANUKOVYCH
RESIDENCE.
>> YOU  NEED MONEY TO WIN AN
SELECTION IN UKRAINE.
>> Reporter:  LEGITIMATE OR
CORRUPTED.
>> FOR MY REGIME, IT'S A VERY
EXPENSIVE PROPOSITION.
EVEN LAW JUT MOTHER POLITICIANS
NEED A LOT OF BARKSZ WHO MAY
HAVE ORIGINS FOR THEIR CAPITAL.
BUT THE PROBLEM IS THERE'S NOT
ENOUGH TIME BETWEEN NOW AND MAY
FOR THE THEM TO HAVE NEW
CHARISMATIC LEADERS TO EMERGE.
THERE ARE CIVIC ACTIVISTS OUT
THERE FOR THREE MONTHS PUTTING
THEIR BODIES ON THE LINE, THEY
WILL PROBABLY GET INVOLVED IN
THE POLITICAL PROCESS.
AND THE PARLIAMENTARY ELECTION I
THINK WE'LL SEE NEW POLITICAL
FORCES IN THE PARLIAMENT AND I
THINK WE'LL HAVE SOME SORT OF
GADFLY MOVEMENT THAT MAY KEEP
THE REST OF THE ELITE.
AND UKRAINE PARLIAMENT IS A
PARLIAMENT OF BILLIONAIRES AND
MULTIMILLIONAIRES.
IT'S CORRUPT.
AS SOON AS THEY GET A POLICY
GOING THE BETTER FOR UKRAINE.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT ARE YOU
LOOKING FOR.
>> THEY NEED A GOVERNMENT THAT
BEGINS TO GET THINGS WORK THAT
GIVES THEM A SENSE OF CALF DENSE
AND RESTORATION OF NORMALCY.
I ALSO HOPE THE GOVERNMENT
APPEARS INCLUSIVE.
MAYBE DOESN'T HAVE TO INCLUDE
MEMBERS OF REGIONS IN THE
CABINET BUT SOME PEOPLE CAN SAY
YES WE SPEAK FOR THE INTEREST OF
EASTERN AND SOUTHERN UKRAINE.
AGAIN SO TH PART OF UKRAINE
WHERE WE WORRY ABOUT POSSIBLE
TENDENCIES WHICH SHOULD NOT BE
OVERSTATED.
WE WANT THEM TO FEEL THAT YES
THIS GOVERNMENT IS GOING TO BE
LISTENING TO THEIR CONCERNS AND
RESPOND TO THEIR CONCERNS.
AND THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
DEAL WITH SOME VERY DIFFICULT
FINANCIAL CHALLENGES WITH SOME
BIG DEALS COMING QUIT AND NEED
OUTSIDE HELP FOR THAT.
>> Woodruff:  WE'LL LEAVE IT
THERE BUT CONTINUE TO WATCH THIS
STORY.
STENCH PIFER AND ADRIAN
KARATNYCKY, WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE ARREST OVER THE
WEEKEND OF THE HEAD OF ONE OF
THE WORLD'S MOST SOPHISTICATED
NARCOTICS NETWORKS, PROVED A
MAJOR VICTORY FOR BOTH U.S. AND
MEXICAN LAW ENFORCEMENT.
NOW BOTH SIDES WANT TO PROSECUTE
HIM.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: MEXICAN MARINES LED
JOAQUIN "EL CHAPO" GUZMAN AWAY
IN HANDCUFFS ON SATURDAY.
THUS ENDING A 13-YEAR HUNT FOR
ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOST
DANGEROUS MEN.
>> ( translated ): THIS ARREST
IS THE PRODUCT OF AN OPERATION
THAT'S BEEN WORKED ON FOR
SEVERAL MONTHS IN COORDINATION
WITH ALL FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
AGENCIES
>> Brown: ONLY TWO DAYS EARLIERS
AT HIS EX-WIFE'S HOME IN THE
WESTERN CITY OF CULIACAN,
CAPITAL OF THE MEXICAN STATE OF
SINALOA.
HE GOT AWAY, THROUGH A TRAP DOOR
UNDER THE BATHTUB, AND MANAGED
TO ESCAPE THROUGH A NETWORK OF
TUNNELS AND THE CITY'S SEWER
SYSTEM.
U.S. DRUG AGENTS AND MEXICAN
TROOPS, ACTING ON WIRETAPS AND
OTHER INFORMATION, PURSUED HIM
135 MILES SOUTH, TO THIS LUXURY
CONDOMINIUM IN THE SEASIDE
RESORT OF MAZATLAN.
THERE, JUST BEFORE DAWN
SATURDAY, THEY STORMED INTO
GUZMAN'S ROOM AND CAPTURED HIM
WITHOUT FIRING A SHOT.
IN WASHINGTON TODAY, WHITE HOUSE
PRESS SECRETARY JAY CARNEY
PRAISED THE JOINT EFFORT.
>> THIS IS A SIGNIFICANT
ACHIEVEMENT IN OUR SHARED FIGHT
AGAINST TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED
CRIME, VIOLENCE, AND DRUG
TRAFFICKING.
THE U.S. AND MEXICO HAVE A
STRONG SECURITY PARTNERSHIP AND
WE WILL CONTINUE TO SUPPORT
MEXICO IN ITS EFFORTS TO ENSURE
THAT CARTEL LEADERS ARE PUT OUT
OF BUSINESS.
>> Brown: GUZMAN WAS FORMALLY
CHARGED SUNDAY WITH UGDR
TRAFFICKING IN MEXICO.
HE FACES INDICTMENTS IN THE U.S.
AS WELL, AND FEDERAL PROSECUTORS
IN NEW YORK AND CHICAGO ALREADY
ARE ASKING FOR HIS EXTRADITION.
IT'S NOT THE FIRST TIME BEHIND
BARS FOR THE 56-YEAR-OLD GUZMAN,
NICKNAMED EL CHAPO, OR SHORTY,
BECAUSE HE'S ONLY FIVE FEET SIX
INCHES TALL.
IN 2001, HE ESCAPED FROM A
MEXICAN PRISON BEFORE HE WAS
HALFWAY THROUGH A 20-YEAR
SENTENCE FOR DRUG TRAFFICKING
AND MURDER.
OVER THE YEARS HE BUILT THE
SINALOA CARTEL INTO MEXICO'S
MOST POWERFUL DRUG OPERATION,
WIPING OUT RIVALS IN A REIGN OF
BRUTALITY THAT KILLED TENS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE.
IN MEXICO CITY, WORD OF HIS
CAPTURE BROUGHT BOTH HOPE AND
SKEPTICISM.
>> ( translated ): I THINK THAT
IT'S SOMETHING VERY GOOD.
I THINK IT'S A EXCELLENT
ACHIEVEMENT FROM THIS GOVERNMENT
THAT IS GIVING US RESULTS.
I THINK NOT JUST FOR MEXICO BUT
FOR MANY COUNTRIES IT'S AN
IMPORTANT ARREST.
>> ( translated ): IT'S VERY
DIFFICULT, THE CARTEL IS QUITE
ORGANIZED AND HAS A PRESENCE IN
MANY STATES IN THE COUNTRY, SO
IT'S DIFFICULT TO SAY THAT JUST
WITH THE CAPTURE OF EL CHAPO THE
CARTEL WILL FALL APART.
>> Brown: GUZMAN JOINS MIGUEL
ANGEL TREVINO, WHO WAS HEAD OF
THE ZETAS, A RIVAL CARTEL, AND
WAS ARRESTED LAST SUMMER.
THOSE ARE MAJOR GETS FOR
PRESIDENT ENRIQUE PENA NIETO,
WHO HAD SAID HE'D RE-BALANCE THE
ALL-OUT WAR AGAINST CARTELS WITH
A NEW EMPHASIS ON THE ECONOMY
AND EDUCATION.
>> Brown: BUT WHAT DOES THIS GET
MEAN FOR THE DRUG TRADE?
WE TURN TO: ALEJANDRO HOPE,
FORMERLY A MANAGER AT MEXICO'S
NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY AND
NOW A PRIVATE SECURITY ANALYST.
HE JOINS US FROM MEXICO CITY.
AND SAM QUINONES, A REPORTER FOR
THE LOS ANGELES TIMES AND AUTHOR
OF SEVERAL BOOKS ON MEXICO
WAS THIS A SURPRISE THAT HE WAS
CAPTURED WITHOUT A SHOT BEING
FIRED, AND HOW WERE MEXICAN AND
U.S. FORCES ABLE TO DO AT?TH
WHAT DO WE KNOW?
>> WELL, I MEAN THIS IS THE END
RESULT OF A LONG PROCESS OF
ACCUMULATION OF INTELLIGENCE
ABOUT GUELZO MOM AND ABOUT THE
ENVIRONMENT   WHERE HE WORKED
AND WHERE HE LIVED.
THIS IS NOT FIRST MAJOR
ARRESTS HAPPENED WITHOUT SHOTS
BEING FIRED.
THAT HAPPENED ALSO UNDER THE
ADMINISTRATION OF PRESIDENT
CALDERON.
IT WAS SURPRISING THAT EL CHAPO
DIDN'T PUT UP MUCH MORE OF A
FIGHT BUT IT DOES PROVE THERE
ARE FAR MORE CAPACITIES NOW THAN
WHEN THIS WHOLE PROCESS STARTED
SEVEN, EIGHT YEARS AGO.
>> Brown:  SAM QUINONES TELL
US A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT
GUZMAN HIMSELF, HIS HISTORY, HIS
REPUTATION, HIS IMPORTANCE.
>> I THINK THE HISTORIAN, THE
STORY OF THE SINALOAIANS IN DRUG
TRAFFICKING IS ONE OF THE MOST
FASCINATING IN ALL OF THE
HISTORY OF ORGANIZIZED CRIME.
THESE ARE GUIDE WHO STARTED OUT
IN THE COUNTRY OF SMALL HILLSIDE
MOUNTAIN COUNTY IN THE STATE OF
SINALOA.
FROM THERE, THEY USED MACHISMO
VIOLENCE IN THE REIN THAT RAN
THE COUNTRY.
SINALOAIANS GREW TO CONTROL THE
BORDER BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND MEXICO.
SO THEY CONTROLLEDAREA S AS FAR
AWAY AS JUAREZ AND TIJUANA AND
THE ARIZONA BORDER.
CHAPO GUZMAN GREW UP IN THIS
POOR COMMUNITY.
I CAME VIOLENT AND I THINK ALSO
A FAIR AMOUNT OF EXPERTISE THAT
HE DEVELOPED IN LOGISTICS, IN
ORGANIZATIONAL CAPACITY BEGAN TO
EXPAND THIS CARTEL UNTIL HE KIND
OF, HE'S KIND OF BASICALLY
RUBBED OUT THE OTHER TWO, THE
JUAREZ CARTEL IS NOT WHAT IT
ONCE WAS.
THE TIJUANA CARTEL ESPECIALLY
HAS DISINTEGRATED.
HE'S NOW LEFT TO BE THE LONE GUY
ALONG MUCH OF THE BORDER.
THAT'S WHY IT'S SO BIG.
I STARTED AS A HILL BILLY
BASICALLY.
ALL OF THEM STARTED AS HILL
BILLIES MOST OF THEM AND NOW
HE'S THE MOST WANTED GUY IN THE
UNITED STATES AS WELL AS IN
MEXICO.
>> Brown:  LET ME ASK
ALEJANDRO HOPE, HOW IMPORTANT IS
THIS IN MEXICO.
AND IN THIS LONG FIGHT THAT
MEXICO'S HAD AGAINST THE
CARTELS.
WHERE DID THIS FIT IN AND WHAT
DOES IT TELL US ABOUT WHERE THAT
FIGHT IS RIGHT NOW?
>> WELL I THINK THIS IS VERY
IMPORTANT BOTH ETHICALLY,
STRATEGICALLY AND POLITICALLY.
ETHICALLY BECAUSE GUZMAN WAS, EL
CHAPO FACED MEXICO, HE FACED
LAWMAKERS FOR YEARS.
HE SUCCESSFULLY WAGED WAR IN TWO
MAJOR CITIES.
HE WAS MOSTLY UNIMPEDED.
IT'S AN IMPORTANT MESSAGE THAT
THIS GUY WAS BROUGHT TO JUSTICE.
SECONDLY, STRATEGICALLY BECAUSE
THIS IS PUSHING, THIS
ACCELERATED AN ONGOING
CONCESSION FROM LARGE-SCALE DRUG
TRAFFICKING ORGANIZATION TO
SMALL GANGS, MORE LOCAL IN SCOPE
BUT IN ACTIVITIES IIE INVOLVED
IN THINGS LIKE EXTORTION,
KIDNAPPING, THEFT.
SO THIS IS IN SOME WAYS, THIS IS
THE END OF AN ERA.
CHAPO WAS ONE OF A DYING BREED
OF MEXICAN GANGSTERS AS MOSTLY
SMUGGLERS.
AND THIS CERTAINLY CHANGES THE
BORDER OF MEXICANS AROUND THE
WORLD.
POLITICALLY IT'S IMPORTANT
BECAUSE NIETO CAN SEND TWO
IMPORTANT MESSAGES.
ONE IT'S EFFECTIVE AGAINST THE
FIGHT OF A LARGE SCALE MAFIAS
AND SECONDLY, THEY CAN PUT TO
REST THE RUMORS THAT HAD BEEN
GOING ON FOR QUITE SOMETIME THAT
THE NEW ADMINISTRATION WOULD TRY
TO ACCOMMODATE THE CARTELS AND
WOULD TRY TO EXCHANGE PEACE FOR
TOLERANCE.
I THINK THAT SHOULD PUT THAT TO
REST.
>> Brown:  SO SAM QUINONES,
THE BIG QUESTION IS WHAT DOES
HIS CAPTURE MEAN FOR THE FLOW OF
DRUGS IN THE UNITED STATES AND
ELSEWHERE?
WE HEARD THAT U.S. OFFICIALS
WANT TO EXTRADITE GUZMAN
HIMSELF.
BUT WHAT DOES HIS CAPTURE MEAN.
MIGHT IT IMPEDE THE FLOW?
MIGHT IT HAVE ANY IMPACT AT ALL.
>> I SUSPECT IT WILL PROBABLY
HAVE SOME SIGNIFICANCE IMPACT
FOR A WHILE.
YOU KNOW, I WAS ASKED EARLIER,
IS THIS AN IMPORTANT THING AND
ARE THERE PEOPLE TO REPLACE HIM.
YES, TO THOSE QUESTIONS.
THERE ARE PEOPLE TO REPLACE HIM
AND STILL THIS IS A VERY VERY
IMPORTANT COUP.
I AGREE WITH AL HAS NOT -- HAS
SAID.
THERE IS THE IDEA THAT THIS GUY
WAS CAPITOL OF THE POSTER CHILD
FOR MEXICAN IMPUNITY.
BUT ALSO THESE CARTELS VERY
OFTEN, THE GUY WHO RAN THESE CAR
PELS HAD A BUREAUCRACY IN SOME
SENSE.
THEY ARE GUYS WHO COMBINED
CERTAIN CAPACITIES.
FIRST OF ALL OF COURSE WONTON
MURDER THE ABILITY TO KILL AT
THE DROP OF A HAT NUMBER ONE.
BUT ALSO THEY INVOLVED, THEY
EMBODIED GREAT ORGANIZATIONAL
CAPACITY AND GREAT LOGISTICAL
CAPACITY.
THIS GUY WAS MOVING TONS OF
DRUGS ACROSS A WELL-ARMED
BORDER, USING CRIMINALS AND
OTHER FOLKS, RAG TAG ARMY KIND
OF FOLKS.
THAT IS NOT EASY TO DO.
AND SO IF HE'S TAKEN DOWN, I
THINK WE CAN SUSPECT THAT THERE
PROBABLY ARE NOT A WHOLE LOT OF
OTHER PEOPLE THERE TO HAVE THE
SAME CAPACITY OR CHARISMA THAT
HE DOES.
D SO THAT MAY LEAD TO
FRACTURING.
I THINK WHAT'S HAPPENING IN THE
CARTELS NOWADAYS THEY ARE
FRACTURING.
THERE WERE A FEW LARGE ONES AND
THEY WERE TOTALLY FRACTURING AND
THIS IS ONE MORE STEP TOWARDS
THAT.
>> Brown:  SAM QUINONES IF YOU
COULD IN THE LAST 30 SECONDS DO
YOU EXPECT HIM TO BE EXTRADITED
TO THE U.S. OR BE TRIED IN
MEXICO.
>> OUR FEDERAL PRISON SYSTEM IS
BECOMING A DEPOSITORY FOR
NUMEROUS LEGENDARY MEXICAN, I
SUSPECT HE WILL BE RIGHT THERE
PRETTY SOON.
>> Brown:  SAM QUINCE YOANS,
ALEJANDRO HOPE, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> Ifill: NOW, STRIKING THE
BALANCE BETWEEN NATIONAL
SECURITY AND BUDGET REALITY.
>> Ifill: DEFENSE SECRETARY
CHUCK HAGEL LAID OUT PLANS THIS
AFTERNOON TO CUT TROOPS AND
CLOSE BASES, RESHAPING THE
NATION'S MILITARY AFTER MORE
THAN A DECADE OF WAR.
>> WE ARE REPOSITIONING TO FOCUS
ON THE STRATEGIC CHALLENGES AND
OPPORTUNITIES THAT WILL DEFINE
OUR FUTURE: NEW TECHNOLOGIES,
NEW CENTERS OF POWER AND A WORLD
THAT IS GROWING MORE VOLATILE,
MORE UNPREDICTABLE AND IN SOME
INSTANCES MORE THREATENING TO
THE UNITED STATES.
>> Ifill: A KEY PART OF THAT
REPOSITIONING: SHRINKING THE
ARMY FROM 522,000 ACTIVE-DUTY
SOLDIERS TO BETWEEN 440-450,000
THE FEWEST SINCE WORLD WAR TWO.
THE ARMY NATIONAL GUARD WOULD BE
REDUCED AS WELL, BUT HAGEL SAID
IT CAN BE DONE WITHOUT
COMPROMISING NATIONAL DEFENSE.
>> Ifill: THE BUDGET ALSO CALLS
FOR ELIMINATING THE VENERABLE A-
10 WARTHOG AIRCRAFT, USED FOR
CLOSE AIR SUPPORT OF GROUND
TROOPS, AND FOR REPLACING THE
ICONIC U.2. SPY-PLANE WITH A
FORCE OF GLOBAL HAWK DRONES.
AMONG THE OTHER RECOMMENDATIONS:
HAGEL ALSO PROPOSES FREEZING
SALARIES OF GENERALS AND
ADMIRALS.
AND LIMITING PAY RAISES FOR
MILITARY PERSONNEL TO ONE
PERCENT.
HE SAID DELAYING SUCH DECISIONS
ACTUALLY HURTS MORALE.
>> IT NEEDS TO BE DONE ONCE SO
THAT OUR MEN AND WOMEN AND THEIR
FAMILIES IN UNIFORM, THOSE WHO
HAVE SERVED AND THOSE WHO ARE
THINKING ABOUT SERVING DON'T
CONSTANTLY LIVE UNDER THIS CLOUD
OF UNCERTAINTY AND THREAT, OF
WELL, "WHAT ARE THEY GOING TO DO
NEXT YEAR?"
"ARE THEY GOING TO TAKE THIS OUT
I DON'T WANT THAT.
NEXT YEAR?"
WE CAN'T HAVE THAT.
I DON'T WANT THAT.
>> Ifill: THE PENTAGON BUDGET
WE CAN'T HAVE THAT.
PROPOSAL GOES TO CONGRESS NEXT
>> Ifill: THE PENTAGON BUDGET
WEEK.
PROPOSAL GOES TO CONGRESS NEXT
>> Ifill: TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT
WEEK.
WAS JUST THE FIRST SALVO IN WHAT
>> Ifill: TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT
IS LIKELY TO BE A PROLONGED
WAS JUST THE FIRST SALVO IN WHAT
BATTLE ABOUT POLICY AND
IS LIKELY TO BE A PROLONGED
PRIORITIES.
BATTLE ABOUT POLICY AND
HERE TO WEIGH THOSE CHOICES, ARE
PRIORITIES.
THOMAS DONNELLY, A DEFENSE AND
HERE TO WEIGH THOSE CHOICES, ARE
SECURITY ANALYST AT THE AMERICAN
THOMAS DONNELLY, A DEFENSE AND
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
SECURITY ANALYST AT THE AMERICAN
AND GORDON ADAMS TOP WHITE HOUSE
ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE.
BUDGET OFFICIAL FOR NATIONAL
AND GORDON ADAMS TOP WHITE HOUSE
SECURITY DURING THE CLINTON
BUDGET OFFICIAL FOR NATIONAL
ADMINISTRATION.
SECURITY DURING THE CLINTON
HE NOW TEACHES AT AMERICAN
ADMINISTRATION.
UNIVERSITY.
HE NOW TEACHES AT AMERICAN
GORDON ADAMS, HOW SIGNIFICANT
UNIVERSITY.
ARE CHUCK HAGEL'S PROPOSAL TODAY
GORDON ADAMS, HOW SIGNIFICANT
AND HOW NECESSARY ARE THEY.
ARE CHUCK HAGEL'S PROPOSAL TODAY
>> I THINK THEY ARE CERTAINLY
AND HOW NECESSARY ARE THEY.
NECESSARY.
>> I THINK THEY ARE CERTAINLY
I CALL THIS 50% TOWARDS REALITY.
NECESSARY.
THEY HAVE RECOGNIZED THAT THE
I CALL THIS 50% TOWARDS REALITY.
BUDGET IS NOT GOING TO GROW THE
THEY HAVE RECOGNIZED THAT THE
WAY THEY PROJECTED IT WOULD LAST
BUDGET IS NOT GOING TO GROW THE
YEAR WHEN THEY LOOKED AT THE
WAY THEY PROJECTED IT WOULD LAST
FUTURE.
YEAR WHEN THEY LOOKED AT THE
THIS YEAR THEY'RE SAYING WELL
FUTURE.
WE'LL COME DOWN A BIT, BUT IT'S
THIS YEAR THEY'RE SAYING WELL
ONLY 50% TOWARDS THE REALITY
WE'LL COME DOWN A BIT, BUT IT'S
BECAUSE THEY STILL AREN'T QUITE
ONLY 50% TOWARDS THE REALITY
PREPARED TO BUDGET AT THE LEVEL
BECAUSE THEY STILL AREN'T QUITE
THAT'S IN THE BUDGET CONTROL AS
PREPARED TO BUDGET AT THE LEVEL
OF AUGUST 20, 11.
THAT'S IN THE BUDGET CONTROL AS
I THINK THAT'S THE BEST THEY'RE
OF AUGUST 20, 11.
LIKELY TO DO.
I THINK THAT'S THE BEST THEY'RE
SO IN A SENSE IT'S 50% TOWARDS
LIKELY TO DO.
THE GOAL BUT THEY'RE NOT QUITE
SO IN A SENSE IT'S 50% TOWARDS
AT THE GOAL LINE YET IN
THE GOAL BUT THEY'RE NOT QUITE
REALISTIC BUDGETING TERMS.
AT THE GOAL LINE YET IN
>> Ifill:  ARE THEY CUTTING
REALISTIC BUDGETING TERMS.
TOO DEEPLY, THOMAS.
>> Ifill:  ARE THEY CUTTING
>> GORDON'S QUITE RIGHT ABOUT
TOO DEEPLY, THOMAS.
THE NUMBERS.
>> GORDON'S QUITE RIGHT ABOUT
THEY MATCHED THE NUMBERS THAT
THE NUMBERS.
WERE IN THE BUDGET WITH THE
THEY MATCHED THE NUMBERS THAT
PATTY MURRAY BUDGET DEAL FOR
WERE IN THE BUDGET WITH THE
THIS YEAR BUT THEY BUMPED THE
PATTY MURRAY BUDGET DEAL FOR
NUMBERS UP FOR THE SUBSEQUENT
THIS YEAR BUT THEY BUMPED THE
YEARS ABOVE LEVELS INDICATED IN
NUMBERS UP FOR THE SUBSEQUENT
THE BUDGET CONTROL LEGISLATION.
YEARS ABOVE LEVELS INDICATED IN
SO THEY'VE GOT ABOUT 120 BILLION
THE BUDGET CONTROL LEGISLATION.
DOLLARS MORE TO GO TO REACH THAT
SO THEY'VE GOT ABOUT 120 BILLION
LEVEL.
DOLLARS MORE TO GO TO REACH THAT
>> Ifill:  FOR PEOPLE WHO
LEVEL.
DON'T FOLLOW THE BUDGET HOW
>> Ifill:  FOR PEOPLE WHO
NECESSARY IS IT AND HOW DEEP IS
DON'T FOLLOW THE BUDGET HOW
IT.
NECESSARY IS IT AND HOW DEEP IS
>> IT'S DEEP.
IT.
IT'S NECESSARY BUDGETARILY BUT
>> IT'S DEEP.
IT'S A HUGE MISTAKE
IT'S NECESSARY BUDGETARILY BUT
STRATEGICALLY AND FOR THE HELP
IT'S A HUGE MISTAKE
OF THE U.S. MILITARY SERVICES.
STRATEGICALLY AND FOR THE HELP
>> Ifill:  OKAY.
OF THE U.S. MILITARY SERVICES.
HE JUST THREW THAT IN THE.
>> Ifill:  OKAY.
STRATEGICALLY WHY.
HE JUST THREW THAT IN THE.
>> I'LL TELL YOU SOMETHING,
STRATEGICALLY WHY.
BERNARD WHO WAS ONE OF THE GREAT
>> I'LL TELL YOU SOMETHING,
STRATEGICKISTS IN THE 1950'S AND
BERNARD WHO WAS ONE OF THE GREAT
60'S QUOTE A BOOK IN WHICH HE
STRATEGICKISTS IN THE 1950'S AND
HAS A CHAP THURSDAY CALLED
60'S QUOTE A BOOK IN WHICH HE
STRATEGIC WEARS A DOLLAR SIGN.
HAS A CHAP THURSDAY CALLED
THE REALITY IS STRATEGY AND
STRATEGIC WEARS A DOLLAR SIGN.
MONEY ARE ALWAYS RELATED.
THE REALITY IS STRATEGY AND
THEY ALWAYS HAVE BEEN, THEY
MONEY ARE ALWAYS RELATED.
ALWAYS HAVE BEEN.
THEY ALWAYS HAVE BEEN, THEY
WE'RE COMING DOWN RIGHT NOW IN
ALWAYS HAVE BEEN.
THE DEFENSE BUDGET AT ABOUT A
WE'RE COMING DOWN RIGHT NOW IN
PACE LIKE OTHER DRAWDOWNS THAT
THE DEFENSE BUDGET AT ABOUT A
WE'VE DONE AFTER KOREA, AFTER
PACE LIKE OTHER DRAWDOWNS THAT
VIETNAM, AT THE END OF THE COLD
WE'VE DONE AFTER KOREA, AFTER
WAR.
VIETNAM, AT THE END OF THE COLD
WE'VE ALWAYS COME DOWN AROUND
WAR.
30% IN CONSTANT DOLLARS FROM THE
WE'VE ALWAYS COME DOWN AROUND
TOP OF SPENDING TO THE WAY WE
30% IN CONSTANT DOLLARS FROM THE
REACHED THE BOTTOM.
TOP OF SPENDING TO THE WAY WE
AND WE'RE AT THE SHALLOW END OF
REACHED THE BOTTOM.
THAT RIGHT NOW.
AND WE'RE AT THE SHALLOW END OF
>> Ifill:  THOMAS DONNELLY
THAT RIGHT NOW.
WHAT DOES THIS STRATEGY TELL US
>> Ifill:  THOMAS DONNELLY
AFTER TEN YEARS OF WAR AND
WHAT DOES THIS STRATEGY TELL US
WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE
AFTER TEN YEARS OF WAR AND
TO DRAW DOWN.
WHETHER WE'RE GOING TO CONTINUE
>> THE MONEY QUOTE FROM
TO DRAW DOWN.
SECRETARY HAGEL WAS THAT WE ARE
>> THE MONEY QUOTE FROM
SIZING THE FOREST FOR A NON-WAR
SECRETARY HAGEL WAS THAT WE ARE
STRATEGY ESSENTIALLY.
SIZING THE FOREST FOR A NON-WAR
FOR THE UNITED STATES AND FOR
STRATEGY ESSENTIALLY.
ANY GLOBAL POWER TWO HAS ALWAYS
FOR THE UNITED STATES AND FOR
BEEN THE RIGHT NUMBER.
ANY GLOBAL POWER TWO HAS ALWAYS
NOBODY WANTS TO USE ALL THE
BEEN THE RIGHT NUMBER.
FORCE THEY'VE GOT IN A SINGLE
NOBODY WANTS TO USE ALL THE
CONTINGENCY, PARTICULARLY FOR
FORCE THEY'VE GOT IN A SINGLE
GLOBAL POWER LES SOMETHING ELSE
CONTINGENCY, PARTICULARLY FOR
HAPPENS.
GLOBAL POWER LES SOMETHING ELSE
WE HAVE ESSENTIALLY A STEP
HAPPENS.
BACKWARD FROM A TRADITIONAL
WE HAVE ESSENTIALLY A STEP
MEASURE OF WHAT USED TO BE A
BACKWARD FROM A TRADITIONAL
GREAT POWER.
MEASURE OF WHAT USED TO BE A
>> Ifill:  SOME OF THE THINGS
GREAT POWER.
THAT WILL GET A LOT OF ATTENTION
>> Ifill:  SOME OF THE THINGS
WHICH ARE NOT NECESSARILY THE
THAT WILL GET A LOT OF ATTENTION
BIGGEST TICKET ITEMS INVOLVE
WHICH ARE NOT NECESSARILY THE
THINGS LIKE TAKING AWAY THE
BIGGEST TICKET ITEMS INVOLVE
SUBSIDY FOR CALL SAYYS AND
THINGS LIKE TAKING AWAY THE
CHANGING MILITARY BENEFITS.
SUBSIDY FOR CALL SAYYS AND
IS THAT SEPARATE IN YOUR MIND OR
CHANGING MILITARY BENEFITS.
ARE YOU THINKING OF CLOSING
IS THAT SEPARATE IN YOUR MIND OR
BASES AND HARDWARE.
ARE YOU THINKING OF CLOSING
>> ALL THOSE THINGS THAT WILL
BASES AND HARDWARE.
IMMEDIATELY SAVE THAT MUCH MONEY
>> ALL THOSE THINGS THAT WILL
IS MOST POLITICALLY ADVANTAGEOUS
IMMEDIATELY SAVE THAT MUCH MONEY
AS WE SAW FROM THE ADJUSTMENT OF
IS MOST POLITICALLY ADVANTAGEOUS
HEALTHCARE CO-PAYS AND THE
AS WE SAW FROM THE ADJUSTMENT OF
BUDGET DEAL.
HEALTHCARE CO-PAYS AND THE
THAT'S GOING TO MOBILIZE THE
BUDGET DEAL.
VETERANS GROUPS TO TAKE TO THE
THAT'S GOING TO MOBILIZE THE
STREETS.
VETERANS GROUPS TO TAKE TO THE
NOT GOING TO SAVE THAT MUCH
STREETS.
MONEY AND IT'S NOT GOING TO
NOT GOING TO SAVE THAT MUCH
FOCUS ON THESE LARGER STRATEGIC
MONEY AND IT'S NOT GOING TO
SIZED QUESTIONS.
FOCUS ON THESE LARGER STRATEGIC
>> Ifill:  SECRETARY HAGEL
SIZED QUESTIONS.
SAID THERE MAY BE SEQUESTRATION
>> Ifill:  SECRETARY HAGEL
DOWN.
SAID THERE MAY BE SEQUESTRATION
>> I'LL TELL YOU SOMETHING,
DOWN.
GWEN.
>> I'LL TELL YOU SOMETHING,
I THINK REALISTICALLY THE
GWEN.
PENTAGON NEEDS TO BE PLANNING IS
I THINK REALISTICALLY THE
THE REALITY OF THE LEVELS IN THE
PENTAGON NEEDS TO BE PLANNING IS
BUDGET CONTROL ACT.
THE REALITY OF THE LEVELS IN THE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S THE BEST
BUDGET CONTROL ACT.
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IN THE
BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S THE BEST
PENTED GUN OVER THE NEXT FIVE
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IN THE
YEARS.
PENTED GUN OVER THE NEXT FIVE
INSTEAD OF DOING THAT -- IT DOES
YEARS.
NOT DO THAT.
INSTEAD OF DOING THAT -- IT DOES
INSTEAD OF DOING THAT WHAT THE
NOT DO THAT.
SECRETARY DID WAS SAY LET'S
INSTEAD OF DOING THAT WHAT THE
ASSUME WE'VE GOT 115 BILLION
SECRETARY DID WAS SAY LET'S
DOLLARS MORE OVER THE NEXT FIVE
ASSUME WE'VE GOT 115 BILLION
YEARS THEN THE BUDGET CONTROL
DOLLARS MORE OVER THE NEXT FIVE
COULD PROVIDE.
YEARS THEN THE BUDGET CONTROL
WHAT THAT DOES FOR THE PLANNING
COULD PROVIDE.
PROCESS IN THE PENTAGON IS
WHAT THAT DOES FOR THE PLANNING
MISLEAD THEM.'RE ONLY GOING TO
PROCESS IN THE PENTAGON IS
GET AT BUDGET CONTROL LEVELS BUT
MISLEAD THEM.'RE ONLY GOING TO
THEY START PLANNING PROGRAMS AND
GET AT BUDGET CONTROL LEVELS BUT
HARDWARE CHOICES AT A HIGHER
THEY START PLANNING PROGRAMS AND
LEVEL OF SPENDING WE HAVE TO IN
HARDWARE CHOICES AT A HIGHER
THE NEXT TWO OR THREE YEARS AND
LEVEL OF SPENDING WE HAVE TO IN
THEY'LL SUDDENLY DISCOVER
THE NEXT TWO OR THREE YEARS AND
THEY'VE GOT TO CUT THINGS OUT
THEY'LL SUDDENLY DISCOVER
INTO THE PLAN.
THEY'VE GOT TO CUT THINGS OUT
THEY BAKED IT IN NOW THEY GOT TO
INTO THE PLAN.
BAKE IT OUT.
THEY BAKED IT IN NOW THEY GOT TO
>> Ifill:  IS IT POLITICALLY
BAKE IT OUT.
POSSIBLE CUTTING EVEN MORE
>> Ifill:  IS IT POLITICALLY
DEEPLY.
POSSIBLE CUTTING EVEN MORE
>> THE BUDGET CONTROL AT THAT
DEEPLY.
LEVEL IS ABOUT THE BEST THEY
>> THE BUDGET CONTROL AT THAT
COULD DO, NOT THE WORSE.
LEVEL IS ABOUT THE BEST THEY
>> PREDICTING WHAT THE DEFENSE
COULD DO, NOT THE WORSE.
BUDGET WILL BE FIVE YEARS FROM
>> PREDICTING WHAT THE DEFENSE
NOW IS ALWAYS A RECIPE FOR
BUDGET WILL BE FIVE YEARS FROM
TEARS.
NOW IS ALWAYS A RECIPE FOR
WHO KNOWS WHETHER THE POLITICS
TEARS.
WILL CHANGE.
WHO KNOWS WHETHER THE POLITICS
BUT GORDON'S RIGHT.
WILL CHANGE.
I MEAN IF THE BUDGET CONTROL ACT
BUT GORDON'S RIGHT.
IS THE CEILING, THEN THEY'VE GOT
I MEAN IF THE BUDGET CONTROL ACT
MORE HOMEWORK TO DO.
IS THE CEILING, THEN THEY'VE GOT
THE QUESTION I WOULD ASK IS NOT
MORE HOMEWORK TO DO.
ABOUT INPUTS ABOUT WHAT WE PAY
THE QUESTION I WOULD ASK IS NOT
BUT WHAT WE GET BACK IN TERMS OF
ABOUT INPUTS ABOUT WHAT WE PAY
SECURITY AND THAT WILL GO DOWN
BUT WHAT WE GET BACK IN TERMS OF
TOO.
SECURITY AND THAT WILL GO DOWN
>> Ifill:  THAT'S THE
TOO.
QUESTION.
>> Ifill:  THAT'S THE
IF WE SHIFT OUR FOCUS FROM
QUESTION.
AIRCRAFT CARRIERS AND OUTDATED
IF WE SHIFT OUR FOCUS FROM
SOME PEOPLE SAY AIRPLANES AND WE
AIRCRAFT CARRIERS AND OUTDATED
CHIP INTO CYBER OPERATION
SOME PEOPLE SAY AIRPLANES AND WE
SPECIAL OPS IS THAT THE REALITY.
CHIP INTO CYBER OPERATION
>> IT COMES TO A POINT THAT TOM
SPECIAL OPS IS THAT THE REALITY.
MADE EARLIER WHEN HE SAID A
>> IT COMES TO A POINT THAT TOM
PLANNING SCENARIO USUALLY
MADE EARLIER WHEN HE SAID A
INVOLVES TWO BIG WARS.
PLANNING SCENARIO USUALLY
THE REALITY IS I DON'T THINK
INVOLVES TWO BIG WARS.
THAT'S THE REAL WORLD THAT WE'RE
THE REALITY IS I DON'T THINK
GOING INTO.
THAT'S THE REAL WORLD THAT WE'RE
AS WE'VE SEEN, YOU KNOW, SETTING
GOING INTO.
ASIDE IRAQ WHICH WAS A WAR OF
AS WE'VE SEEN, YOU KNOW, SETTING
CHOICE NOT A WAR THAT WE WERE
ASIDE IRAQ WHICH WAS A WAR OF
THROWN INTO, THE REALITY IS 23
CHOICE NOT A WAR THAT WE WERE
WE'RE GOING TO BE USING FORCES,
THROWN INTO, THE REALITY IS 23
WE'RE GOING TO BE USING THEM IN
WE'RE GOING TO BE USING FORCES,
SMALLER PACKAGES, SMALLER
WE'RE GOING TO BE USING THEM IN
COMBATS, DIFFERENT TYPES OF
SMALLER PACKAGES, SMALLER
SUPPORT TRAINING OPERATIONS,
COMBATS, DIFFERENT TYPES OF
THINGS THAT YOU CAN IN FACT, IF
SUPPORT TRAINING OPERATIONS,
YOU DO IT RIGHT, DO WELL.
THINGS THAT YOU CAN IN FACT, IF
THE PROBLEM THAT THEY HAVE IS
YOU DO IT RIGHT, DO WELL.
THEY GOT TO POINT THE SPEAR BACK
THE PROBLEM THAT THEY HAVE IS
OFF THIS ISSUE.
THEY GOT TO POINT THE SPEAR BACK
THEY'RE BUYING A LOT OF BACK
OFF THIS ISSUE.
OFFICE IN THIS BUDGET AND IN THE
THEY'RE BUYING A LOT OF BACK
PAST BUDGETS WHICH IS THE
OFFICE IN THIS BUDGET AND IN THE
ADMINISTRATION AND THE PENTAGON.
PAST BUDGETS WHICH IS THE
IF THEY WANT TO BE ABLE THE
ADMINISTRATION AND THE PENTAGON.
COMBAT POINT THEY HAVE TO TACKLE
IF THEY WANT TO BE ABLE THE
THAT BACK OFFICE MORE SERIOUSLY
COMBAT POINT THEY HAVE TO TACKLE
THAN THEY HAVE.
THAT BACK OFFICE MORE SERIOUSLY
>> Ifill:  THE SECRETARY OF
THAN THEY HAVE.
DEFENSE SAID TODAY IT WAS A
>> Ifill:  THE SECRETARY OF
MODEST AND NECESSARY SERIOUS OF
DEFENSE SAID TODAY IT WAS A
PROPOSALS BUT YOU'VE BEEN
MODEST AND NECESSARY SERIOUS OF
THROUGH THIS BEFORE.
PROPOSALS BUT YOU'VE BEEN
WHAT IS YOUR SENSE BASED ON WHAT
THROUGH THIS BEFORE.
THESE KINDS OF DEBATES WE'VE
WHAT IS YOUR SENSE BASED ON WHAT
SEEN UNFOLD ESPECIALLY TALKING
THESE KINDS OF DEBATES WE'VE
ABOUT SHRINKING RATHER THAN
SEEN UNFOLD ESPECIALLY TALKING
ADDING HOW REALISTICALLY IT IS
ABOUT SHRINKING RATHER THAN
HOPEFULLY.
ADDING HOW REALISTICALLY IT IS
>> IF THEY GET THE PERSONNEL
HOPEFULLY.
MEASURES THROUGH I'LL BUY GORDON
>> IF THEY GET THE PERSONNEL
A SIX PACK.
MEASURES THROUGH I'LL BUY GORDON
>> AND I'LL ACCEPT.
A SIX PACK.
>> THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
>> AND I'LL ACCEPT.
>> I AGREE WITH TOM ON THAT.
>> THAT'S NOT GOING TO HAPPEN.
THE PERSONNEL STAFF IS THE THIRD
>> I AGREE WITH TOM ON THAT.
RAIL OF DEFENSE BUDGETING.
THE PERSONNEL STAFF IS THE THIRD
YOU DON'T GO IN THERE LIGHTLY
RAIL OF DEFENSE BUDGETING.
AND YOU GO IN WELL ARMED.
YOU DON'T GO IN THERE LIGHTLY
BRIAN MURRAY SAID MILITARY
AND YOU GO IN WELL ARMED.
RETIREES UNDER 62 ARE WORKING
BRIAN MURRAY SAID MILITARY
FULL TIME OUGHT TO GET A PENSION
RETIREES UNDER 62 ARE WORKING
COLA 1% LESS THAN THE COST OF
FULL TIME OUGHT TO GET A PENSION
THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX.
COLA 1% LESS THAN THE COST OF
WITHIN SIX WEEKS, THAT WAS
THE CONSUMER PRICE INDEX.
DEADER THAN A DOOR DMAIL BECAUSE
WITHIN SIX WEEKS, THAT WAS
THE GROUPS CAME UP ON THE NET
DEADER THAN A DOOR DMAIL BECAUSE
AND PEOPLE SAID WE WEREN'T WORK
THE GROUPS CAME UP ON THE NET
ON THAT.
AND PEOPLE SAID WE WEREN'T WORK
IT'S DEAD I'LL HOW ABOUT THE
ON THAT.
HARDWARE.
IT'S DEAD I'LL HOW ABOUT THE
>> HARDWARE'S THE EASIEST THING.
HARDWARE.
>> THEY'RE NOT REALLY CUTTING
>> HARDWARE'S THE EASIEST THING.
THAT MUCH.
>> THEY'RE NOT REALLY CUTTING
IT'S GREAT AIR PLAINS BUT IT'S
THAT MUCH.
BEEN AROUND REALLY LONG TIMES.
IT'S GREAT AIR PLAINS BUT IT'S
IT'S NOT THAT MUCH THAT'S NEW
BEEN AROUND REALLY LONG TIMES.
LEFT TO CUT.
IT'S NOT THAT MUCH THAT'S NEW
SO IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO REALLY
LEFT TO CUT.
GET THE DOLLAR SAVINGS THAT
SO IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO REALLY
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR.
GET THE DOLLAR SAVINGS THAT
THE BIG DOLLAR SAVINGS COME FROM
THEY'RE LOOKING FOR.
THE CUTS.
THE BIG DOLLAR SAVINGS COME FROM
>> THAT'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
THE CUTS.
WE'LL GO DOWN IN PROCUREMENT
>> THAT'S ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
BECAUSE WE ALWAYS DO IN A DRAW
WE'LL GO DOWN IN PROCUREMENT
DOWN.
BECAUSE WE ALWAYS DO IN A DRAW
THERE'S NOT A LOT THERE YOU CAN
DOWN.
FIND TO TAKE OUT.
THERE'S NOT A LOT THERE YOU CAN
>> Ifill:  THE BATTLE BEGINS
FIND TO TAKE OUT.
AT THE BUDGET.
>> Ifill:  THE BATTLE BEGINS
>> IN THE FIRST STAGE.
AT THE BUDGET.
>> Ifill:  GORDON ADAMS,
>> IN THE FIRST STAGE.
THOMAS DONNELLY, THANK YOU VERY
>> Ifill:  GORDON ADAMS,
MUCH.
THOMAS DONNELLY, THANK YOU VERY
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE RESIGNATION OF
THE CABINET FROM EGYPT'S INTERIM
GOVERNMENT TODAY WAS THE LATEST
TURN IN THE TUMULTUOUS THREE
YEARS SINCE THE DOWNFALL OF
HOSNI MUBARAK.
TWO EGYPTIAN-AMERICAN FILMMAKERS
CHARTED MUCH OF THAT JOURNEY.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
SAT DOWN WITH THEM RECENTLY.
>> Reporter:  THE OSCAR
NOMINATED DOCUMENTARY THE SQUARE
TRACKS TWO AND-A-HALF YEARS OF
TUMULT IN EGYPT FROM HOSNI
MUBARAK TO THE 2012 END OF THE
MILITARY RULE AND THE 2013
REMOVAL OF ELECTED MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD PRESIDENT MOHAMED
MORSI.
THE FILM WHICH CAN'T WE SHOWN
PUBLICLY IN EGYPT IS ABOUT SIX
CHARACTERS WHO MET IN TAHRIR
SQUARE.
ESPECIALLY A YOUNG REVOLUTIONARY
AND A FATHER OF FOUR.
WE SAT DOWN WITH DIRECTOR JAW
HIBIT NOUJAIM AND PRODUCER IN
WASHINGTON.
>> JAW JEHANE NOUJAIM, THANK
YOU.
WHEN THIS STARTED IN 2011 WHAT
DID YOU SEE THAT MADE YOU RUSH
AND START FILMING.
>> IT WAS A MAGICAL MOMENT AND
THIS IS WHY I MAKE FILMS BECAUSE
I SEE PEOPLE THAT INSPIRE ME,
SURPRISE ME, TAKE ME TO A PLACE
I NEVER BEEN BEFORE AND I WANT
TO SHARE THEM WITH THE WORLD
IMMEDIATELY.
WE GREW UP IN AN EGYPT WHERE
PEOPLE WERE AFRAID TO TALK ABOUT
HOW THEY FELT ABOUT POLITICS FOR
FEAR OF REPERCUSSION.
HERE YOU HAVE MEN, WOMEN, PEOPLE
OF ALL DIFFERENT CLASSES TALKING
ABOUT AND SHARING DREAMS OF THE
FUTURE FOR THE VERY FIRST TIME.
>> WHAT ATTRACTED YOU TO YOUR
MAIN CHARACTERS.
>> WHEN I WENT DOWN ORIGINALLY,
I WENT DOWN ACTUALLY AS A
SKEPTIC.
BUT WHEN YOU MEET PEOPLE LIKE
AKMED WHO LIVED ALL THEIR LIVES
THEY FELT THEIR STORY WAS
WRITTEN FOR THEM.
THEY HAD NO SENSE OF
EMPOWERMENT, THEY HAD NO SENSE
OF AUTHORSHIP FOR THE FUTURE.
TO FEEL THAT FOR THE FIRST TIME,
THEY COULD PEN THAT FUTURE, THEY
COULD HAVE THE COUNTRY OF THEIR
DREAMS WAS AN UNBELIEVABLE
FEELING.
WHEN YOU'RE MAKING A FILM LIKE
THIS, YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT'S
GOING TO PAN OUT.
SO THEIR ACTIONS ACTUALLY IN THE
EVENT IS WHAT ENDED UP MAKING
THEM THE CHARACTERS.
SO IT WAS THE MAIN SCENE IN THE
FILM WHERE THE BROTHERHOOD DID
NOT PARTICIPATE AND HE WENT
AGAINST BROTHERHOOD ORDERS.
>> Reporter:  HE SAID I'M
STAYING HERE.
>> HE SAID I'M STAYING HERE.
THAT MOMENT MADE HIM MUCH MORE
COMPELLING AS A CHARACTER
BECAUSE HE BECAME SOMEONE WHO
WAS CONFLICTED BETWEEN TWO
SIDES.
>> I HAVE TO SAY AT THE END OF
THE MOVIE I WAS LEFT WITH A
SADNESS BECAUSE THE CHARACTERS
GOT ON THIS ENDLESS LOOP OF
UNITY AND SOLIDARITY AND
EXPECTATION AND THEY WOULD
TOPPLE THE RULER ONLY TO MAKE
ROOM FOR THE NEXT DESPOT AND
THEY WOULD BE ANGRY AND SAY
WE'RE GOING BACK TO THE STREETS
BUT IT DIDN'T REALLY GET BETTER.
>> I ACTUALLY AM LEFT WITH THE
FEELING OF OPTIMISM AND I'LL
TELL YOU WHY.
EVEN THOUGH WE'RE IN THIS VERY
DARK TIME IN ERROR JUST A  -- ED
PEOPLE ARE BEING ADDRESSED AND
WORST TIME FOR JOURNALISTS.
PEOPLE ON THE GROUND AND ALL THE
CHARACTERS WOULD SAY WE HAVE TO
GO THROUGH THESE MISTAKES.
WE HAVE TO GO THROUGH THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD FOR EXAMPLE AND THE
PENDULUM HAS SWUNG COMPLETELY TO
THE OTHER DIRECTION NOW TOWARDS
THE MILITARY, RIGHT.
AND ULTIMATELY I FEEL AND I HOPE
AND THIS IS WHAT OUR CHARACTERS
FEEL, ARE THAT WE'LL GET TO A
POINT WHERE WE'LL BE ABLE TO
HAVE A HEALTHY COUNTRY.
I MEAN, I FEEL LIKE IT'S THE
CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT OF OUR
TIME.
AND OUR CHARACTERS ARE STILL ON
THE FRONT LINES STRUGGLING FOR
IT.
>> WE AND THE CHARACTERS ALL
HAVE TO KIND OF FREE OURSELVES
FROM THE FAIRY TALE STORY AVENUE
CHANGE THAT IN 18 DAYS PEOPLE
CAN GO DOWN FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN THEIR LIVES -- AND DEMOCRACY
IS GOING TO FLOURISH.
WE SUFFERED FROM A LOT OF
PROBLEMS PEOPLE AROUND THE WORLD
ARE TRAPPED IN.
THIS KIND OF STORY HAS CHANGED
WHICH WE'RE TOLD WHICH IS MORE
LIKE CHANGE IS GREATEST HITS
WHERE WE SEE THE HIGHLIGHTS OF
CHANGE IN OUR HISTORY.
SO WE SEE GANDHI INVADING INDIA
AND WE SEE MANDELA ENDING
APARTHEID AND WE SEE MARTIN
LUTHER KING SAYING I HAVE A
DREAM BUT WE DON'T WANT TO SPEND
20 YEARS  LIKE MANDELA.
PEOPLE DPOAPTD WANT TO GO BACK
TO THE OLD STORY OF EGYPT.
>> Reporter:  DOESN'T SUCCESS
PEA PEND ON THIS GENERATION OF
REVOLUTIONARIES BEING WILLING TO
GO THE NEXT STEP AND DO THAT
HARD GOOD WORK OF POLITICAL
PARTIES, RUNNING FOR OFFICE.
>> THIS IS A TIME WHEN WE DIDN'T
HAVE A JUDICIARY, WE DIDN'T HAVE
A FREEDOM OF PRESS, WE DIDN'T
HAVE THESE PILLARS OF DEMOCRACY.
IT'S NOT THE PILLAR BOX.
PEOPLE FELT THE ONLY WAY OF
REACHING PEOPLE WAS THE STREETS.
THAT'S WHERE THEY FELT THEIR
ROLE WAS AT THAT TIME.
>> FOR US AS FILM MAKERS, THE
CLIMAX HAPPENS IN THE FIRST TWO
MINUTES.
THE DICTATOR FELL.
WHERE ARE YOU GOING TO GO FROM
THERE YOU KNOW.
SO I THINK THAT THERE IS A LOT
OF ACTIVITY HAPPENING IN EGYPT.
IT MAY NOT ALL BE MANIFESTING
ITSELF INTO THE POLITICAL
CONTINUANCE BUT THERE ARE
ASPECTS HELPING SHAPE THE
FUTURE.
>> JEHANE AND KARIM THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU FOR HAVING US.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET ALSO ASKED
THE FILMMAKERS ABOUT A NEXT
CHAPTER FOR THE CHARACTERS IN
THE DOCUMENTARY, AND YOU CAN SEE
THAT EXTENDED INTERVIEW ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
STORY ABOUT STORY-TELLING.
OUR COLLEAGUES AT K.Q.E.D. IN
SAN FRANCISCO ARE THE TELEVISION
LEG OF AN UNUSUAL REPORTING
PARTNERSHIP THAT INCLUDES THE
SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE, THE
CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING AND THE RESIDENTS OF A
PUBLIC HOUSING PROJECT IN
RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA.
JEFFREY BROWN LOOKS AT WHAT THEY
PRODUCED.
>> Brown: IN MANY WAYS, IT WAS A
TRADITIONAL HARD HITTING NEWS
INVESTIGATION.
IT TOOK MONTHS OF DIGGING,
COMBING THROUGH STACKS OF
DOCUMENTS AND INTERVIEWING
SOURCES, FOR THE CENTER FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTINGS AMY
JULIA HARRIS AND HER COLLEAGUES
TO FLESH OUT MYRIAD PROBLEMS AT
THE RICHMOND HOUSING AUTHORITY.
BUT THIS INVESTIGATION HAD A
TWIST.
ONE THAT OFFERED A DIFFERENT WAY
OF REPORTING THE NEWS, AND
DESCRIBING WHAT'S GOING ON,
THROUGH POETRY.
>> THIS IS WHERE RODENTS AND
ROACHES ARE LIKE FAMILY CAUSE WE
SHARE THE SAME MEALS.
WEEEL  F30 BELOW AIR FROM
CRACKED WINDOWS.
NO HEAT FOR RICHMOND WIND BLOWS.
>> Brown: DEANDRE EVANS, WILL
HARTFIELD AND DONTE CLARK, ALL
IN THEIR EARLY 20'S, GREW UP IN
RICHMOND.
LAST FALL, THEY JOINED CIRS
HARRIS AS SHE INTERVIEWED
RESIDENTS AND DOCUMENTED LIVING
CONDITIONS AT TWO DILAPIDATED
PUBLIC HOUSING PROJECTS.
WHAT THEY HEARD AND SAW, THE
COCKROACHES, MOLD AND OTHER
SQUALOR,NSPI IRED THE THREE TO
WRITE A POEM CALLED THIS IS
HOME.
>> I SEE BARREN HALLWAYS
BROKEN CAMERAS
UNINVITED GUESTS
THERE'S NO SERVICE HERE
AS IF A SEA OF PEOPLE WERE CAST
AWAY ON AN ISLAND TO FEND FOR
THEMSELVES
THE WEATHER OUTSIDE IS
FRIGHTENING
>> Reporter: ITS ALL PART OF A
NEW EFFORT CALLED THE OFF/PAGE
PROJECT.
A COABORLLATION BETWEEN C.I.R.,
A NONPROFIT, NONPARTISAN
JOURNALISM ORGANIZATION,
AND THE SAN FRANCISCO BASED
YOUTH SPEAKS WHICH PROMOTES
WRITING AND EDUCATION AND HOSTS
A YEARLY POETRY SLAM COMPETITION
FOR YOUNG PEOPLE.
JOSE VADI DIRECTS THE OFF/PAGE
PROJECT.
>> IT'S TRYING TO FIND NEW WAYS
TO TELL INVESTIGATIVE JOURNALISM
IN A NEW LIGHT, IN A NEW FORM OF
STORYTELLING.
AND WANTED TO REACH A YOUNGER
AUDIENCE AND HAVE A CONVERSATION
CENTERED AROUND THEM AND SOME
ISSUES THAT ARE AFFECTING THEIR
LIVES AND THEIR DAY TO DAY.
>> Brown: WHO'S IT FOR?
I MEAN IS IT FOR THE JOURNALISTS
OR FOR THE YOUNG POETS?
>> I THINK ITS FOR BOTH YOU
KNOW?
JOURNALISTS AND YOUNG PEOPLE
ALIKE ARE KIND OF ABLE TO FIND A
COMMON GROUND THROUGH A PLATFORM
LIKE OFF/PAGE.
>> Brown: VADI HIMSELF BRIDGES
THE TWO WORLDS.
HE'S A TWO-TIME NATIONAL POETRY
SLAM CHAMPION AND A PLAYWRIGHT,
WHO NOW HAS A DESK IN A
NEWSROOM.
>> THERE WAS THAT INITIAL
HESITATION OF YOU KNOW, THERE'S
THIS POET COMING INTO A
NEWSROOM, DEALING WITH SOME
HARDCORE INVESTIGATIONS, IS THIS
POET GOING TO COME IN HERE AND
WEAR A BERET AND JUST YOU KNOW
WRITE COUPLETS ALL DAY?
I THINK THAT WAS A FEAR, BUT I
THINK WHEN THEY REALIZED THAT
MYSELF, I COME FROM A BACKGROUND
WHERE A LOT OF MY ART IS
INFORMED BY EVERYTHING THAT GOES
ON AROUND, YOU KNOW MY DAILY
LIFE AND WHAT I READ IN THE
PAPER AND WHAT I SEE ON THE
STREETS.
>> Brown: THE RICHMOND HOUSING
STORY IS ACTUALLY THE FIFTH
JOURNALISM/POETRY COLLABORATION
FOR OFF/PAGE.
PREVIOUS INVESTIGATIONS LOOKED
AT SEXUAL ABUSE OF FEMALE FARM
WORKERS.
>> Brown: AND BANKRUPTCY
PROBLEMS IN STOCKTON, CALIFORNIA
WHERE TEENS WERE GIVEN ACCESS TO
CIR REPORTS ON THE CITY'S
FINANCIAL MISMANAGEMENT.
>> THE MURDER RATE IS A MURDER
RATE IN HERE.
>> IN
IN REPORTING THE RICHMOND STORY,
C.I.R.'S AMY JULIA HARRIS SAYS
THE PERSPECTIVE OF THE YOUNG
POETS BROUGHT SOMETHING EXTRA TO
HER JOURNALISM.
>> WHEN I FOUND OUT I WAS GOING
TO BE WORKING WITH POETS, I HAD
NO IDEA HOW THAT WAS GOING TO
WORK.
I TOOK THE POETS IN TO TALK TO
PEOPLE THAT I'D BEEN TALKING TO,
AND THEY WERE ASKING VERY
POIGNANT QUESTIONS AND SAID, YOU
KNOW, HOW ARE YOU ABLE TO LIVE
LIKE THIS, AND WERE ASKING
REALLY GOOD QUESTIONS THAT KIND
OF HELPED INFORM MY REPORTING.
THE POETS DID AN AMAZING JOB OF
JUST CAPTURING THE SENTIMENT OF
RESIDENTS, AND KIND OF
CONTEXTUALIZING IT, AND BROADER
ISSUES OF NEGLECT.
>> Brown: EDITORS AT THE SAN
FRANCISCO CHRONICLE SEEM TO
AGREE: IN ADDITION TO RUNNING
HARRIS ARTICLE IN THE PAPER,
THEY'VE POSTED A LINK TO A VIDEO
OF THE POETS PERFORMING THEIR
WORK.
>> GROUND BY A SQUAD, NOT BY
SURGEON OR DISEASE BUT A ROOM
THAT A WHEELCHAIR WASN'T MADE
FOR.
>> FOR THEIR PART THEY SAY THEY
LEARNED FROM THE EXPERIENCE.
>> YOU CAN USE NEWS AS A WAY TO
CONNECT EVERYBODY TO WHAT'S
GOING YOU O ALL LIVE IN THE SAME
COMMUNITY BUT Y
>> YOU CAN USE NEWS AS A WAY TO
CONNECT EVERYBODY TO WHAT'S
REALLY GOING ON.
YOU ALL LIVE IN THE SAME
COMMUNITY, BUT YOU DON'T KNOW
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THAT HOUSE
NEXT DOOR TO YOU.
>> Brown: HOW DOES THIS CONNECT
TO YOUR POETRY?
YOUR OWN WRITING?
>> IM BRINGING THE PEOPLES
PERSPECTIVE.
SEE WHEN YOU HEAR OUR POEM IT IS
LIKE YOU ARE LISTENING TO THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE ACTUALLY LIVING
IN IT.
IT'S ONE THING TO HEAR SOMEONE
TALKING ABOUT IT, IT'S ANOTHER
THING TO HEAR SOMEONE LIVING IT
>> Brown: THE THREE ARE NOW
WORKING WITH JOSE VADI TO TURN
THEIR POEM INTO A THEATRICAL
PRODUCTION WHICH THEY PLAN TO
PERFORM NEXT MONTH IN SAN
FRANCISCO.
AND THEY SAY THEY'RE HOPEFUL THE
INVESTIGATION THEY WERE PART OF
WILL LEAD TO CHANGES IN
RICHMONDS PUBLIC HOUSING
PROJECTS.
SENTA IMENT DONTE CLARK WROTE
ABOUT IN THE FINAL VERSE OF THIS
IS HOME.
>> GOTTA PROTEST, RAID THE
GOVERNMENT,
SHAKE THEIR POCKETS
AND MAKE THEM FIX THESE PRO-
JECTS, HUH!?!
...WHERE DO WE GO NEXT?
CAUSE LEFT IS CEMETERY.
BUT
UNTIL TOMORROW
BEFORE MY THOUGHTS WILL MANIFEST
KINGDOM
AND WE FEAST IN ABUNDANCE OF
WEALTH
WE'LL BREAK BREAD, SHARE WHAT
LEFT OVER SCRAPS WE HAVE AND
FIND COMMUNION IN OUR STRUGGLE
THIS IS TOMORROW
>> Ifill: THE STORY ON THE
RICHMOND HOUSING INVESTIGATION
AIRED FRIDAY ON K.Q.E.D. SAN
FRANCISCO.
AND ONLINE, YOU CAN WATCH THE
POETS PERFORM "THIS IS HOME."
THE ENTIRE K.Q.E.D./C.I.R.
REPORT IS POSTED ON ART BEAT.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
UKRAINE'S INTERIM LEADERS
LAUNCHED A MANHUNT FOR FORMER
PRESIDENT VIKTOR YANUKOVYCH FOR
THE KILLINGS OF PROTESTERS.
THE PENTAGON SERVED NOTICE THAT
IT WANTS TO DOWNSIZE THE
U.S. ARMY, TO THE SMALLEST IT'S
BEEN SINCE JUST BEFORE WORLD WAR
TWO.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, J.K. ROWLING GOT THE
IDEA FOR "HARRY POTTER" WHILE ON
A TRAIN.
COUNTLESS WESTERNS, MYSTERIES
AND HITCHCOCK PLOTS ARE INSPIRED
BY RAIL TRAVEL.
AND NOW AMTRAK IS CATCHING ON BY
OFFERING WRITERS A CHANCE TO GET
ON BOARD WITH A NEW RESIDENCY
PROGRAM, IT GIVES THEM A SEAT
AND A CREATIVE SPACE TO WRITE
THEIR GREAT AMERICAN NOVEL WHILE
TRAVELING ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
READ ABOUT THE PROJECT, ON THE
RUNDOWN.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE A-
10 WARTHOG, A MILITARY AIRCRAFT
SEEN AS A GUARDIAN IN THE SKIES,
THAT MIGHT BE GROUNDED BY BUDGET
CUTS.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL,
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT